Good afternoon, my name is Elena Chistyakova. I am a business coach and a personal consultant.
I have more than 8 years of experience in this field.
I am a member of the International Association of Cross-Cultural Management in Vienna, Austria.
I work with well-known training companies and educational centers.
Today you are working on your wardrobe.
Take the course of the image of a business person and your wardrobe will start working on you.
You will learn to make the right impression on the right people.
You will be able to create your unique image of success.
Image. Why is it important?
Many people say that in any case they are being guided by their mind.
But in fact they meet you by your clothes.
Anyway, the way you look matters a lot.
Because you are being chosen.
You are one of many people.
You should be able to attract attention and at the same time to create trust.
Besides, a well-formed image of a business person will help you reduce time and energy for self-presentation.
Psychologists say that a person who presents himself very brightly,
talks a lot about himself, causes irritation.
Therefore, it is very important to convey most of the information about yourself in a non-verbal way.
And the more, the better.
The golden rule of a make-up artist says that you need to look a little better than your target audience,
which is your impression.
In this case, the impression will be the most pleasant to make the right, effective impression.
Because if you look much better, more expensive, more status, or more strict than your target audience,
it will cause distrust.
People will think that you are not taking your place.
If you look much worse, cheaper, more unpretentious, more sloppy than your target audience,
then it will cause distrust in another sense.
What are you doing here?
Does your competence correspond to what you are doing?
Maybe you came and want to deceive someone with your appearance and do not correspond to your position.
Therefore, the golden rule of an image maker is to look a little better than your target audience.
There are three main tasks in managing the impression.
The first task is to attract the attention of the right people.
The second task is to make yourself trustworthy.
And the third important task of an image maker is to show your status, your social role, your working role, your position in the company and in society.
Psychologists say that the leader must be shown.
Remember the cap of the captain, remember the royal crown and the scepter.
This is really important.
Therefore, if you lead the team, you must show the attributes of the leader in your image, in your appearance.
And we will also talk about this in detail.
Posture is necessary in all three of these stages.
The right and competent posture will attract your attention.
Because a good posture is, first of all, a feeling of health and inner harmony.
And this is very important.
In the same way, a good posture will cause trust in you.
Because you will not hide information inside yourself.
And the right shoulders, a free back and a free and harmonious position in space will cause trust that no internal information is hidden inside you.
It is also especially important for the leader to show a good posture in the situation and in the team.
Try to command by bending your shoulders, knees, crossing your arms and legs, bending your head.
You will not succeed.
On the other hand, remember how much time is spent in the army in the construction preparation.
And this is not in vain.
If a person is used to holding a spread chest, straight legs, free hands, straight head, he looks like a leader.
He feels like a leader.
And a leader in the situation, including a leader in the team.
It is much easier for him to cope with difficult situations, crisis situations and dangerous situations.
Therefore, a good posture is needed not only for an effective presentation, but for self-presentation and leadership.
Let's see what you need to pay attention to when you build your right posture.
Knees.
Knees should be free.
Try to move them.
They should not be very straight back.
That is, tense straight.
And they should not be half-bent.
They should be free.
And every movement is free in what sense?
You are always ready to move, ready to start walking or jump to the side or back.
It shows you the dynamics, the naturalness of movement and also health.
The hips should be calm.
They should not be unbent back.
It is very ugly.
Not pressed as if you hide your tail.
This should not be either.
It causes discomfort and a feeling of being subordinate.
The hips should be free.
Listen.
Free, unbent hips, when you breathe, slightly swing back and forth.
Slightly, not much.
But it must be.
Listen to this.
Look, if you have this shell in the hip area, in what state?
In a state of a little back or a little forward.
Try to free it.
Be more free in the hip area.
It says you do not restrain yourself.
You are free in your manifestations.
This is important for the impression trust.
Now the level of the chest.
You should have an open chest, deployed.
The distance between the ribs should be maximum.
In our workbook there are special exercises that will help you feel the openness of the chest,
feel the freedom of deep breathing.
This is also the freedom of the leader in the situation.
As they say, the naval breast.
Openness.
Free hands, not tense, lying on the sides of the body.
Not pressed by the elbows very much to the waist.
And at the same time not swinging freely.
You completely control your gestures.
These are the gestures that you need.
Shoulders are open and deployed back.
It's very simple.
You can first throw them forward, and then turn around
and drop on the back.
The stomach is pulled in.
In this case, the stomach will be pulled in.
Free and natural posture.
Head position is also very important.
The first thing to look at, your gaze should look at the horizon.
He should naturally look straight.
Not down, not always up.
If you throw your head back, then the look is like a nose.
You see a little bit of your tip of the nose.
This is a manifestation of boredom.
Usually it annoys the audience, in front of which you speak.
If your head is constantly tilting forward,
it makes the impression of a man who is hiding something.
It hurts trust.
Try to put your head symmetrically and smoothly,
so that your gaze naturally looked at the horizon.
At the same time, the gaze should not pull forward and hide back.
This also affects trust and presentation of its best qualities.
In order for your posture to be perfect, it is important to do it every day.
You can do oriental practices,
you can do western exercises.
You can do it in your notebook.
But you need to do it consistently.
Only in this case, your posture will help you achieve your business results.
The first thing a person notices when you appear from afar,
he notices the color of your appearance, the color of your clothes.
Therefore, the first thing we will talk about is the color.
We will talk about what is necessary and what is the psychology of the influence of color.
We will talk about what is bad and what should be avoided in the color scheme.
First, we will talk about your color type.
Why is this very important for a business person?
You will say that if I just dress up, if I still look according to the dress code, this is enough.
But in fact, if what you are wearing is very much conflicting with your appearance,
it will cause distrust of you.
This dissonance at the subconscious level will cause some irritation and some kind of rejection of your interlocutor.
Therefore, try to follow the simplest rules even when following the business dress code.
And now we will talk about your color type, about the need to observe harmony.
The first color type you see on the slide is the winter type.
Why winter? It is the brightest and most piercing.
A bright contrast between hair and skin color.
Usually it is light skin and bright dark hair.
For women, it can be deep wine shades of hair, always cool.
Very rarely it happens bright white gray.
But it is very rare, really.
Dark eyes or bright piercing color.
Bright blue, bright green.
Or black.
Or purple, but it is also very rare.
Never gray, never calm.
These shades are very piercing.
Therefore, this person needs to dress in bright contrasts.
And choose accessories of piercing colors, cool shades, silver.
Accessories of silver color.
Look at the picture of this slide.
Here it is just like that.
Bright contrast, very dark black jacket, bright white shirt.
And a bright piercing cool shade of tie.
All right.
What is not allowed?
Please avoid orange.
It will kill your cool skin type.
And please avoid obscure grayish brown shades.
You will see how these shades distract from the color of your eyes.
And the color becomes monotone, as if some spark, some charisma disappears.
So it really is.
More detailed information can be found in the workbook.
Let's look at the next color type.
Very different in appearance.
Summer type from winter.
Summer type is calmer, more muted.
This is the most aristocratic of all colors.
Calm, soft shades of hair.
Most often grayish brown shades.
Nut, chestnut, medium brightness, medium tone.
Cool skin, can be pinkish, more often light.
Can be grayish, alabaster shades.
Tint of ivory, but not completely absent yellow or red shades in hair and skin.
Gray eyes, or having some kind of nutty or bluish color, but very not bright.
This is the most noble gamma.
This is the gamma of queens.
Remember, Queen Elizabeth is always dressed in pearl blue, gray, calm burgundy shade.
This is really a summer type.
The most unpleasant thing is that for the summer type, the most negative color is black.
Of course, I understand that in the business dress code of Business Best, it is impossible to do without black.
However, try to wear gray shades every day and when possible.
And even when you need black, choose a dark gray coal shade, but not a strikingly deep black color.
Accessories should not be bright, should not be bright and shiny, as in winter type.
Everything should be calm and muted.
Orange color is also not suitable for summer type.
It is cool and bright, sunny and fiery orange color kills it.
Avoid bright black and bright orange.
Look how the man is dressed on the slide.
He has calm grayish brownish shades of a jacket.
Calm tie and dark trousers are disconnected from the face with a lighter color of the shirt and jacket.
This is very correct.
Because even if he is dressed in a strict black color, the black color is not attached to the face.
And thus does not have a negative effect.
You look 10 years older and a little sick.
Autumn type.
Such people are said to be deep in the soul of the redhead.
Of course, if a person has bright red hair, striking sprinkles, then it immediately indicates that he is an autumn type.
Whatever color of skin and eyes.
But if there is a shade of red, a shade of khna, as they say bronze or copper in the hair.
If there are sprinkles, although they can be in winter type, but then they are cool and grayish.
And here are bright red, beautiful sprinkles.
Peach skin or very light skin.
And bright eyes are green or brown or walnut or even blue.
Very beautiful type.
Very saturated.
Color filled with autumn colors, filled with the sun.
This color cannot be approached.
Black color cannot be approached.
All shades of the earth, all shades of autumn forest, terracotta, and just as well the shades of vegetables and fruits, which are many in autumn.
Eggplant, tomato, watermelon color.
Very good.
Colors of the deep autumn sky.
Purple-blue.
In general, the colors of the autumn type are deep, bright, warm shades or contrasting them in blue-purple range.
Very ugly for the autumn type looks black.
And this is also a problem for strict business code.
Try to choose a dark shade, deep, but a little eggplant or a little brown.
Black with an eggplant shade or brown.
Or a little olive, dark, deep, green.
This will help you to maintain harmony of appearance and color of clothing.
Beware of pink.
For men it is a color of ties, for women it can be a color of lipstick or nail polish or a color of clothing.
Such a sharp dissonance between orange and pink is unpleasant and does not need to be used in business clothes.
Although, of course, modern fashion allows such color combinations.
So, for the autumn type, all bright range is prohibited from bright black to bright white.
And pink color.
Spring type.
In fact, such a type is rarely found, especially rarely found in Russia.
It was difficult for me to find a picture with such a type.
Natural, such a type is almost not found now.
Such a type is often created by women when they dye their hair.
Eyes are blue, nutty, transparent and filled with color, but not deep dark.
And this golden shade of hair is mandatory.
For such a type, the colors of the spring meadow are very important.
Colors of flowers, if you can say so.
Poppy, green, mint, apricot.
All colors are slightly lighter than the main tone.
And transparent, pleasant colors on the eye.
Soft, warmer than cool.
You can see a man in the picture, who is dressed in such a gentle spring shade.
It is very dangerous for such people to wear black.
It makes them old and makes them sick.
Now I often see such a mistake.
You do not need to wear anything dark, your colors are light.
They revive and reveal your resources.
This is very important.
Therefore, try to avoid black.
Replace it with gray, pearl gray, blue or greenish shades.
What do you think about the colors of your hair?
When I talk about colors, I am often asked.
You said that my color is like this.
And I like such colors.
But what if I like other colors?
If my favorite color is black, and it is forbidden to me?
In fact, there are two very important points.
First, in each range of colors there are different shades of the spectrum.
There are red, green, blue, purple, orange, black and white.
But for each color type, the shade will be different.
The other thing is that everyone can wear something blue, but everyone will have a different shade.
In the workbook you will find detailed tables of your color shades.
They also say that this color is forbidden to me, and it is my favorite.
Here we turn to the field of color psychology.
In fact, specialists noticed the exact connection between our appearance,
between the colors of our appearance, between the forms of our appearance and our inner world.
Therefore, most likely, the shades that suit you are in harmony with your inner content,
with your temperament and your character.
On the other hand, if you need a color, it is especially true for black.
Our time loves black very much, people constantly dress in it.
This was not the case 200 years ago, when people dressed in colorful clothes.
But we have such a time.
Psychologists believe that black is a color of general denial.
The color of disbelief, of nothing in faith.
Therefore, people who love black, usually creative people,
this is the color of a throbbing soul.
If you go to harmony, create this harmony inside yourself,
you will notice how you are more than willing to wear light shades.
It is also very important to influence the color on others.
If you look at our presentation, look at the different pictures of our presentation,
and look at the pictures in the application, you will see that if a person is dressed in beige,
soft, calm shades, he attracts more attention to himself,
he creates a calmer, more harmonious, soft, home atmosphere.
If a person is dressed in cool, blue, cold, green shades, bright, screaming shades,
then he pushes away from himself and establishes a distance.
Remember this when you formulate the goal of your communication.
The shades of your clothes must correspond to this goal.
Distance or, on the contrary, a decrease in this distance.
We talked about colors.
Now it is very important for us to say how to combine these colors.
In the trainings for an open audience, I talk a lot and a variety about how to create contrasts,
what colors to bring closer to the face, what colors to bring further, a lot of different nuances.
But they are interesting in the case when you dress completely freely,
but for business style there are narrower frames, so we will talk about them.
Most often, as you can see in the picture, a man and a woman are dressed in a suit, a shirt, a man is wearing a tie,
a woman can wear larger accessories or a handkerchief.
How to combine the colors of your clothes?
Most often we wear two or three colors in business clothes.
Very correct.
Notice how many colors of your appearance are there.
Eye color, skin color and hair color.
How do they combine?
If you have three colors of your appearance, for example, blue eyes, white skin and dark hair,
then your type is contrast and it is most effective for you to wear three colors next to the face.
This is most often the color of a blouse or a shirt, the color of a jacket and the color of a tie or a handkerchief or accessories for a woman.
If you have two colors, look at me, I have dark brown eyes and dark brown hair of the same color, and the skin is light.
My type is bright, that is, only two colors, and it is most beneficial for me to wear two colors to the face.
This will be the most correct.
How to distribute colors?
Here are the good rules of the ancient masters.
The rules of the golden ratio.
60% of your appearance is completely from head to toe.
Or if you sit at the table all the time, you can count the part of your appearance that is visible to your interlocutor.
60% is one color, the main one.
Most often it is the darkest.
In the workbook you can see the nuances and a specific table for your color type.
What are these colors?
The main color is the darkest.
The next color is the medium color.
It occupies about 30% of the area.
In business, this is most often a light shade of a shirt, white or pastel.
The last color is the accent color.
This is the color of your tie for men, and for women the color of the accessories.
Depending on the brightness of the accessory, you choose from 3 to 10% of the area of ​​the color spot.
It is very important for the accessories that the color of the tie is not the lightest.
The color of your tie cannot be lighter than the color of your shirt.
This is not beautiful and does not correspond to the label.
It should be the brightest shade or match the color of the shirt.
In this case, the accent will be not so much the color, but the texture of the tie.
I can say that according to the same rule, your clothes are distributed in your wardrobe.
If your dress code is more free, then 60% of your wardrobe should be based on basic things.
Not bright, not attractive to yourself.
They will create a background for the appearance of the following things.
For example, basic things can be jeans for a free code.
It can be calm trousers or a calm, flat skirt.
Not attractive to the eye.
How to check whether the thing is basic.
Most often this thing can be worn for different events.
You can wear it to work, you can wear it to the store, you can wear it for a picnic.
This is what speaks about the basic nature of the thing.
The color of the tie is calm, you will rarely see any patterns on it.
Most often, the shades are monotonous and calm.
The next thing that takes up the average is stylish things.
They take up about 30% of the area.
From 20 to 30.
This thing shows your status, your position, your social role.
Therefore, if you wear a T-shirt to the jeans, it will be a sporty style, very light and free.
If you wear a more strict velvet jacket to the same jeans, it will give a different impression, more strict, corresponding to the office level.
And if you wear a shiny top to the jeans, then it will be an evening option.
Pay attention to how one thing changes depending on what stylish things we choose for it.
30% for stylish things.
These things must show your social status, your competence.
Therefore, if you are a creative person, 20-30% of your wardrobe can lead you to the manifestation of this creativity, to an interesting design and unusual details.
And the accent must be bright, memorable.
Thus, you attract attention.
As Coco Chanel said, if you have to dress up completely and then take off some of the jewelry or put on something else,
then either an empty space or an extra detail will attract your attention.
Do the same in choosing accessories.
You came closer from the horizon and now not only the colors of your clothes became noticeable, but the silhouette became noticeable.
Those lines that your figure is outlined with in your clothes, those lines that follow the details of your clothes.
There are three main types of these lines, three main figures.
Psychologists call them archetypical.
Why? Because each of these figures carries a deep psychological meaning.
It carries a certain social role, the role of a person in an ancient tribe.
A triangle is a male symbol and plays a male role.
It is an orientation to the result, it is a bright dominant, it is courage, power, pressure.
Why? Because in the ancient tribe, the main social role of a man was to protect the tribe from enemies and mine.
Therefore, the orientation to the result is that you either protected the tribe or did not protect it.
There are no intermediate solutions, either caught a boar or did not catch it.
Again, there are no intermediate options.
And domination, strict hierarchy, these are the necessary male qualities for protection and hunting.
If we look at the organization of the pack of, say, humanoid monkeys, or even a pack of wolves, or a pack of hooved, for example, wild horses,
you will see that a clear hierarchy among males is necessarily present.
This is really important for the effective organization of the tribe's work.
How to show yourself as a leader, how to show yourself as a male dominant, orientation to the result, to effective, bright, fast development.
Fill your image with triangles.
Look at the slide.
This is a diagonal strip.
Interestingly, in the business code of the business best, in the strictest business code, you can see it at official events, for example, at very high-level politicians.
When heads of states meet, their tie is necessarily diagonal.
These are subconscious expressions of leadership qualities.
Showing yourself as a leader.
Diagonal strip on a jacket, sharp patches on a jacket, sharp corners of the collar of the shirt.
The fabric itself is flat and rigid woolen fabric.
It is broken, pay attention, in the corners of the jacket and in the corners of the trousers by sharp triangular folds.
It cannot be draped softly.
In the same way, the hard arrows on the trousers and the sharp corners of the boots also show you as a bright leader.
What else can be added to this?
Slightly tiled silhouette.
These are also triangles.
Short haircut.
It makes the head triangular.
Never a beard, only a mustache.
Remember that even in the army, beards were prohibited.
This also subconsciously prevents the manifestation of leadership and dominance.
I also want to talk about a tie.
A tie is a very masculine feature of clothing.
Pay attention, something straight, rigid, solid.
It is not for nothing that a tie must close the buckle of the belt.
In fact, a tie for today's man is like a bamboo tube in the tribe of pygmies.
The manifestation of yourself as a man and as a strong man.
Therefore, a woman, having come into the male world and having perceived all the elements of a man's suit,
such as trousers, smooth men's fabrics, men's dark colors, refused to wear a tie.
Even if you follow a strict corporate dress code, a tie and a woman are very different from men.
They are short and are most often tied in the form of a bow.
Note that a modern men's suit, as it is, has been alive for more than 150 years.
In fact, this is the only case in the history of clothing
that a suit has existed for so long, almost unchanged.
Why is this happening?
That is why, from the moment the industrial society was formed,
and now, in the post-industrial period,
the suit is the most expressive, leading, dominant, aggressive,
and bright in orientation to the result.
This is the image that a modern business man needs.
And he has been needing it for 150 years.
However, it is interesting that very often now men try to give up the tie,
that is, to the manifestation of their bright male qualities.
Men wear jeans with a jacket,
try to dress in knitted clothes, in softer, calm tones and shades,
choose light colors.
Why is this happening?
Because our world today is returning to femininity,
demanding more feminine qualities than masculine.
The circle is a symbol of femininity, a symbol of basic feminine qualities.
The main role of a woman in an ancient tribe
is the birth and upbringing of children and the maintenance of the domestic chaga.
The qualities necessary for this are not the orientation to the result,
but the orientation, on the contrary, to the process.
What can be the result of the upbringing of children?
This result is not clear and very much pushed back to the future.
The upbringing of children is more a process, day by day,
just like the maintenance of the household.
There is no clear understanding of either yes or no,
or there is a result or not.
Agree, dinner can be prepared in many possible nuances.
A little bit like this, a little bit like that.
There is no such thing that either I cooked dinner or I did not cook dinner.
There are many intermediate options.
Further.
For women, the quality of creativity is very important.
Every child is different from the other, and everyone needs a separate approach.
The improvement of the household also requires a creative approach.
Therefore, creativity is a female quality,
and it is manifested in the female image of the circle.
Another very important quality for the upbringing of children
is sensitivity, sensitivity, emotiveness, empathy, as psychologists say.
What is it?
This is a quality that a woman needs to feel another person,
to feel his child.
Because for a very long time it is impossible to talk to him,
you can only feel and understand him.
Sensitivity, a subtle psychology in communication,
these are exclusively female qualities.
The circle of manifestation of the female social role,
how it is seen in clothes.
In the picture, it is clear that this is a very extreme,
the most feminine image.
It is really created.
These are transparent or stretch fabrics,
which show the smoothness of the flow of our body.
These are flower patterns,
these are semicircular cutouts,
these are all kinds of draperies, ruches and ruffles.
This is knitting.
The knitting loops themselves are also semicircular.
Therefore, a man, taking off his tie,
puts on knitted clothes,
softer, denim, velvet fabrics.
It adds to its image some,
I can not say weaknesses,
but some subtlety, creativity.
And we note that really creative workers
do not really like strict business suits,
they do not like to wear soft fabrics.
And even a bohemian style in clothes,
such a baggy,
not such a hiding line of the body,
filled with draperies,
some soft semicircular lines,
this is just the type of circle.
Therefore, those employees of your company,
who are engaged in creative work,
for which creativity is necessary,
or a subtle understanding of the psychologist,
like designers or psychologists,
you can not limit such employees
to the choice of softer,
more knitted,
or more fitting clothes.
This is necessary,
because this image will help,
will be harmonious between the inner state
and the strong qualities of this person
and his appearance.
And for such people,
weakening of the dress code is normal and acceptable.
They can not be driven into strict frames.
They will not be able to stand it,
and can even leave a pleasant,
interesting place of work for them.
Another figure is a square.
You will say, who is a square,
if it is neither a man nor a woman?
This is another social role of the ancient tribe,
another, but this role is neither male nor female.
This is the role of a craftsman,
and it can be both a man and a woman.
A square, pay attention,
this is the most stable figure of the three.
This is a frame.
And a person on the inner square,
a person who chooses and in his appearance
shows an abundance of squares,
this is a person who strives for the frame in everything.
He can clearly set a task.
He can track the quality of this task,
from start to finish.
And he can successfully complete this task.
Not to stop, but to complete it
with the necessary level of quality.
Therefore, square people are great managers of projects,
accountants, jewelers.
A person who does his job and does it well.
If you need to show such qualities
as stability, reliability, conservatism, punctuality,
care, commitment,
you can safely fill your image with squares.
This is a cage, both large and small.
These are also horizontal strips or vertical strips.
These are dense woolen fabrics,
but not smooth like a triangle,
but rather soft, loose.
Then they are formed in the folds,
namely in the form of squares.
These are square cutouts.
Here in the picture is a triangular cutout.
Of course, it is difficult to find for a man
clothes with a square cutout.
But for a man it is important that the fabric is soft.
For a man, this is a horizontal, vertical strip and a cage.
Remember that circles are perceived as squares,
not as images of a circle.
Note that for a very long time
the men's suit remained unchanged.
In addition to triangles, there is also a square image.
In other words, a modern business suit
is a combination of a square and a triangular type of texture.
Let's summarize the conversation about silhouettes.
You must fill your image with triangles
if you want to show yourself as a leader,
as a bright leader,
a person who strives for an effective result,
dynamic, active,
strategic,
filled with manpower and manpower.
You must fill your image with circles
if you want to show yourself as a person of a subtle psychology,
a person who is carefully immersed in the world of another person.
If you need to show yourself as a person of a subtle psychology,
a person who is carefully immersed in the world of another person,
soft, courteous,
as, for example, in the case of serving very high clients.
Or a creative person,
who shows his side as the palace of something new.
It can be designers, artists,
a person who creates something new.
Be sure to complement your image with circles,
flower patterns,
soft lines, drapes,
ruffles,
soft, transparent or light fabrics.
If you are a person whose profession includes
commitment, punctuality, strictness and conservatism,
this is most often the workers in the financial sphere,
or people who are very important for accurate, scrupulous performance and maintenance of the quality of work.
Fill your image with squares and you will cause maximum confidence in yourself.
Other people may see you for the first time,
and immediately you will feel your professionalism
and the level of your work.
We realized which colors we should choose in the business transcode.
We realized which colors are suitable for us.
We realized which silhouettes will help us express our self
and those silhouettes that will bring confidence to us.
Now it is very important when we go to the store for shopping,
for those things that will help us to form the right impression,
to buy things in size,
to buy things that will suit us with the features of our figure.
In fact, it is very important what I will say now.
Most often, most of our shortcomings,
the shortcomings of our figure that we know, are absent.
And they are caused only by either unknowingly sewn or unknowingly selected clothes.
That is, if the clothes are suitable for you in size,
if it is well sewn and suits you in silhouette,
then your shortcomings are absent.
It is especially important for women.
We will talk further about what is important for men and for women.
But for women, due to their peculiarity, their subcutaneous,
the structure of the skin, they have a layer of subcutaneous fat.
So it is very important that because the skin of a woman is softer than that of a man,
women must pay special attention to their underwear.
And the price level of your underwear should be much higher than the level of your clothes.
Why, you may ask? It is completely invisible.
In fact, if you are a woman in the body, if you have large shapes,
it is especially important because it supports your shape and creates a beautiful, competent silhouette,
without getting deep into the skin, without creating a caterpillar effect.
If a woman is thin, it will create the necessary shapes.
Someone may have a bulge in the stomach, but in fact there is no bulge in the stomach,
but the chest is simply not beautifully supported.
That is, the chest is not supported.
Therefore, I will not talk in detail now.
This is not a topic for discussing business clothes.
Just remember that you cannot buy underwear below the cost of your top clothes.
So, it is correct to choose clothes by size.
The first thing you need is a fork.
That is, you should measure not the size of the clothes you think you have,
but measure one more thing the same size more and the same thing the size less.
Ideally, when in the store you measure not only your size,
but also the size of the clothes.
In our stores, especially expensive, often there are three different suits and three different sizes.
It is impossible to find the right size and the right shape.
It's very sad.
I advise you to leave such stores.
Because many sellers sin by saying,
oh, you are so to the face, so to the face, and nothing does not wrinkle.
Believe me, I go with customers on shopping sessions.
I help customers buy clothes.
And very often such sellers even start arguing with me.
I say, look, the size does not fit.
Thank you very much, we leave the store.
But sellers continue to insist and demand that we buy this clothes,
which is either small or large.
Why is it very important to choose clothes by size?
And try and more and less size.
The fact is that no matter what person was in his constitution,
full, heavy, or, on the contrary, very thin and light,
or some average size.
It is important that clothes spoil him and larger in size and smaller in size.
Less tightens, tightens, hangs, makes a person fat.
Not his weight makes a person fat, but the clothes that are small for him.
Clothes that are large make a person thin and not foldable.
Moreover, if a person is very large,
then clothes that are large for him will make him even bigger.
And clothes that are small will make him even bigger.
And a very thin person, large clothes will make him even thinner.
And small clothes will also make him even thinner.
The most unpleasant disadvantages of your figure will be seen and even find you new.
Therefore, it is very important to look,
since all clothes are made according to different patterns.
Each fabric lies in its own way.
It is important to measure and understand what the designer wanted,
create what image of these trousers or this jacket or this jumper.
And what size corresponded.
Because the size is rarely accurate.
Exceptions are good expensive catalogs.
If you measure your size,
clothes that are sold on postcards,
most often comes the one that fits perfectly.
And the clothes that are sold on postcards or jackets are not complicated and simplified.
They are needed so that the clothes that you ordered on the postcard
fit perfectly on any figure of the desired size.
It is interesting that now the body composition of people has changed a lot.
And the size and their interaction,
the size of your body inside the size of the clothes remained the same.
Therefore, very often our clothes are worse.
Not because they are poorly sewn, but because they use our old clothes.
And foreign clothes, which were built by designers from Italy,
change more often and more fit us.
And vice versa.
It happens that for our Russian figure our clothes are good.
It happens with shoes.
And bad clothes of those countries,
in which the leg is thinner, because the Slavic leg is usually wider,
and smaller in size.
Now look at the drawing on the desired slide.
And we will see what you need to pay attention to
when you buy a strict business suit.
The fact is that a knitted sweater has fewer requirements, usually it costs less.
The business suit should sit perfectly.
Try to buy it expensive.
On the lining of the jacket, look at the degree of twist of the thread.
The more twisted the woolen thread, the less your suit will be crumpled.
It is very good when the suit is made of natural fabrics,
because in it you feel as comfortable as possible.
But you spend more than half of your day in this suit.
Therefore, take care of the comfort of your body.
Moreover, our offices are often filled with synthetic carpet,
synthetic panels on the ceiling, on the walls, computers.
All this electrifies the air around you.
And it is in natural materials that you will feel most comfortable.
Therefore, when you approach the clothes,
the first thing you look at is the components, how many natural fibers are there.
Choose clothes in size plus and minus.
Put on a jacket, put on trousers.
Be sure to take a shirt with you.
Do not measure the jacket on the T-shirt.
Take the shirt that suits you well.
And you know that it is perfect for you size.
This is important.
You can also measure with a tie.
Because there are interesting shades of suits,
in which you do not take one tie.
Therefore, it is important to take several of your favorite ties,
to be sure that the color of the ties fits the color of the suit.
Measure the suit.
First, let's see, measure the jacket.
In general, in good stores you can choose separately trousers of any size
and separately a jacket of any size.
Thus, they will be perfectly combined in terms of material and texture.
And sometimes be different sizes.
For example, if the shoulders are much wider than the hips,
then, accordingly, the jacket is bought larger than the trousers.
This is normal.
What should you pay attention to?
Jacket.
Put on a jacket, stand up straight.
Make sure your legs are wide shoulders.
So that you lean simultaneously on both legs
and feel your posture symmetrical.
In this case, the bottom of your jacket should lie flat
on the horizontal line.
All folds or creases or slits should lie flat,
as if the jacket is hanging on a hanger and not open.
Believe me, this is very important.
If the back of the slit is open, it looks very messy.
Pay special attention to the seams.
In a jacket, the complex seam connects the sleeve and the jacket shelf.
Here.
And in the same way, this place from the back.
Most often, if the jacket is sewn not neatly,
there are some ugly folds.
If the jacket is very large,
the shoulder that is sewn inside the jacket
protrudes over the shoulder.
And the crease is formed here, on the level of the shoulder.
Therefore, this whole department must be viewed.
And since from the back you will see very difficult,
you must stand straight,
in no case can not twist,
otherwise creases arise on perfectly sewn jackets.
Therefore, you must ask for a second mirror.
Or, preferably, go together,
so that the person who goes with you,
told you honestly,
unlike the seller,
what is going on on your back.
Is the material of the jacket flat?
Then you will see how the shelves lie in front.
If the jacket is unfastened,
they should still lie parallel to each other,
calmly, not very much diverge,
and not find each other.
This just says that the jacket is selected by size.
Fasten the jacket.
Your collar should also lie neatly,
not to be damaged and not to be stretched.
The collar of the jacket is located here.
Then wave your hands.
I'll show you how to do it.
Try to bring your hands forward,
to bring them back.
See what happens with the jacket.
When you raise your hands,
he can follow you slightly rise.
But he himself must return to the place himself.
Remember that the jacket must be measured
with the trousers you will wear.
Because sometimes if you measure the jacket
on a woman in tight jeans,
then the jacket walks normally.
But as soon as she puts on a woolen skirt,
the jacket starts to get out of place,
rises up, creates an ugly feeling
small size.
Usually a slippery inner lining
prevents this.
But sometimes there are unpleasant divergences.
Therefore, it is important to measure the jacket.
Everything you believe in, you measure with what you will wear it.
Next.
Measured the jacket.
The jacket fit.
Great.
Thank the seller.
We hang it on the hanger.
We look at what happens to our trousers.
Trousers are a very important part of your wardrobe.
Especially if there is a tummy,
some difficulty with the hips.
Maybe it's a woman, maybe a man.
As you think, these are disadvantages.
But in fact, these are the features of your figure.
Well sewn trousers will emphasize the positive sides of the lower body.
But in no case do not bulge what is not.
Put on your trousers and look.
They should lie on you freely.
Remember, this is a mistake of almost any man who buys trousers.
Folds at the level of the belt,
the hip protection,
tissue protection that departs from the belt,
trousers are most often diverged on a man who thinks that these trousers are just for him.
In fact, they should lie calmly.
Trousers should be more free in the belt than narrow.
Narrow trousers make a very unpleasant impression.
Why?
Because it seems that a person always corrects himself.
He bought trousers for himself, and he corrected himself again.
And he again does not follow himself.
In our society, which is involved in weight loss, this is not a very good impression.
On the contrary, it makes an impression a man in which the clothes are free.
Naturally free.
And there is a small gap in the trousers, which you can easily hide with a belt.
But they will lie on you calmly and nobly.
Without this extra stretch on the buttocks and in the area of ​​the middle seam.
Next, you look how the folds are smoothed.
It is very important that on many trousers the folds are fried.
As they say, port.
They are smoothed so that it is impossible to redo them in the future.
Therefore, look how symmetrical, how beautiful the folds are.
Folds on the back and folds on the front trousers.
It is very important that there were no creases on them.
Especially in the area of ​​the berries.
It looks very ugly.
Look, a good port can redo you trousers so that these folds are raised and there were no creases.
Most often port services are provided in stores that sell business suits.
How to choose the length of the trousers.
The classic length of the trousers is when you measure trousers without shoes.
You are barefoot, in one socks on the floor.
The edge of your trousers should touch the ground.
This is the classic length of the trousers.
Just like women.
However, now women wear high heels and wear trousers to the floor.
It is more sexual.
Trousers touch the floor.
But for men, the classic length of jeans and business suit remains the same.
They touch the floor when we stand barefoot.
So measure please.
Our legs are very rare.
Who has the same length.
Up to 2 cm difference in length legs almost invisible.
And only noticeable if trousers are measured on one trousers, and the second is done automatically.
Please track.
When you measure the length of your trousers, make sure that you are pierced left and right trousers separately.
Only in this case you will look symmetrical.
Your appearance will be symmetrical.
Folds that arise not only from behind, but also from the front will be the same.
This is very important for the respectability of the impression of your suit.
Here's another thing I want to say.
This applies to both jackets and trousers.
About the length of the sleeves, trousers and the edge of the jacket.
It is very important that if you are tall, take yourself in your hands and do not buy suits that are not for you in height.
Find the only suit.
Maybe you will pay more for it money, but it will be to you in person and in size.
And also for a person of short height.
It looks especially unpleasant when the suit touches the knee and attracts attention as if he were from someone else's shoulder.
Attention.
Your sleeve.
When you freely lowered your hand down, the sleeve should be below your wrist.
You must close the bone on the wrist.
Otherwise it looks like a school.
But it should not be below the second joint of the thumb.
Not below this level.
This is important.
Your shirt should be 2 cm sticking out of under the jacket.
This is also very important.
We will continue to talk about nuances and accessories.
The shirt should not be very short.
When the sleeve is short, it twitches and the shirt is not visible.
This is a bad tone.
If the sleeve is 2 cm shorter than the jacket, it looks like school.
If you wear a jacket, then the cuff sticks out more.
This is normal for sleeves with a jacket.
2 cm is the size for sleeves with buttons.
Let's move on.
Another important size is the length of your jacket.
If you are medium height, then the length of the jacket is natural.
It corresponds to fashion trends.
It is a little shorter or longer.
It changes.
If you have an unusual size chest or waist,
if you have an unusual height,
make sure that the floors of your jacket close the middle line of the seam.
Where does your leg end?
This place should be closed by the floor of your jacket.
Otherwise it will not look beautiful.
Now the next slide.
Shoes and accessories.
The slide is filled with details.
Now we will talk about details, accessories and shoes.
The most important details of your business wardrobe.
If your jackets, trousers, suits, shirts are similar to everyone else,
they are more basic than stylish and accentuated,
then accessories are the things that you can show yourself.
You can show your inner talent, charisma, status.
Therefore, it is especially important to pay attention to accessories.
Because they are associated with many nuances of business dress code.
Let's start with shoes.
Shoes should be in men's business code.
Shoes should be black or dark brown.
If you wear summer suits,
these are lighter versions of the dress code,
then the shoes can be light brown,
but the shoes are always darker than the suit.
If black shoes, then black socks.
It is very important that no matter how you sit,
you leave the sports car,
your leg should not be visible between the sock and the panties.
In other words, the socks should be high, almost golf.
The more expensive the socks, the higher they climb on your calf.
And this is correct.
Socks should not slip and fall.
Therefore, pay attention to the cost of your socks,
to the quality of their performance.
It is especially important that there are no mixed fibers,
which greatly increase unpleasant smells.
It is very important to treat the socks as women's underwear.
Socks with black shoes are black,
with shoes dark brown are dark brown.
In the label, the socks should not be darker than the shoes.
Therefore, a mistake with light beige shoes is a black socks.
And they say that this is according to the business protocol.
In fact, the business protocol prohibits any color of shoes except black.
Therefore, there are only black socks.
Socks should be lighter than shoes, but darker than a suit.
That is, the darkest shoes, then socks, and then the color of the suit.
The color of the suit is the darkest part of the suit.
If the suit is striped or ragged.
What shoes can be worn in what suit?
We will talk about this in the dress code.
I will also point out women's shoes.
Women's shoes should be strict, on a low heel, a stable heel.
It is better to avoid a narrow hairpin.
This is especially important in offices where the carpet is.
It is easy to fall and hurt yourself.
It is also very uncomfortable to sit on a chair on wheels in hairpins.
This all interferes and distracts from the business process.
Hairpins for evening outing.
All your leather accessories should match the color of your shoes.
Therefore, it is very convenient to choose one color that will be yours.
For example, black color for men.
In fact, this is the most standard color.
The same color can be used for a wallet, a belt, a purse, a wallet, a leather folder for documents.
Very ugly when it differs in color.
Attracts and creates the impression of a village image.
Belt.
It is also very important.
These are nuances, but it looks stylish and spectacular.
You make the impression of a greater status.
All metal accessories are on you.
For example, a watch, a belt buckle, a buckle on a shoe, details of a bag of one shade.
Silver, gold, copper.
Now there is a shade of patina.
Not beautiful when bright yellow watch, white large buckle, copper latches.
Believe me, it's really important.
As for the business wallet, it should be extremely simple.
Most often in A4 format or in the format of your laptop.
But it is very important, I am asked about the cost.
The cost of the shoe should be high.
Because the shoe should be comfortable.
And first of all, what you should spend on a shoe.
This is a brand that declares the quality of this shoe.
You should be comfortable in it.
Because you spend most of your life in this shoe.
Therefore, the feeling of home slippers inside your shoes is necessary.
Also with a bag, with a business wallet.
Very ugly when it is cheap.
When it looks cheaper than your clothes.
Your wallet should be on the level.
Even for Europeans, it is interesting observation that Europeans wear very expensive, badly ruffled wallets.
This is not considered a decrease in business code.
It is not necessary that it is perfect new.
But it is important that it is very expensive.
For a woman, there is a fashion trend.
The bag can be fundamentally different in color from all other clothes.
This refers to a more free business code.
In a strict version, the bag should match the color of your shoes.
Similarly, your stockings should match the color of your shoes.
For a woman, it can match the color of the suit.
Or match the color of the stockings.
For a woman, it is convenient to have black shoes and wear them with black stockings.
Or beige shoes and wear them with body stockings.
This is very effective and fits to various colors of the suit.
What can be said about the zappankah.
Very convenient accessory.
Someone is very convenient to show status.
But it still prevents work.
Someone does not like that the sleeves of the shirt come out very much.
They really get out and get more dirty.
Especially if you spend the whole day behind the computer.
Therefore, if you wear zappankah, make sure that you can change the shirt.
Because the shirt will attract attention of the zappankah.
Remember that this is very important.
We have a lot of vulgar in stores now.
Try to buy zappankah in expensive stores.
This is a serious accessory.
At the level of the watch you buy, you show your status.
If you are not ready to buy expensive zappankah, get rid of this accessory.
Now I will tell you about ties.
A tie is a very interesting accessory.
It helps a man to show himself.
Everything else is too strict.
And there is no opportunity for creativity in your image.
In a very strict business dress code, the tie should be extremely simple.
This is just a business strip.
A strict diagonal strip.
And more often a burgundy tie color.
You can choose any tie.
Remember that light silk ties are more suitable for summer.
In winter they do not look very beautiful.
And in the summer they look beautiful on every day.
A tie of a very dark, deep shade.
Or made of wool.
How to tie a tie, you will find in the workbook.
But remember that the knot of your tie can be different due to the fabric.
How it is cut.
A tie is the only fashionable detail of a man's toilet.
If you want to look modern and look status,
then the ties of the latest models will help you.
Because the people around you will notice novelty and interest in the design of your tie.
But in a year or two, it will go away.
There will be more such ties on the market.
He will not attract such interest.
And will not make the right impression.
The watch is a different matter.
It was said that the watch is a serious attribute of a business man.
The price level of the watch shows the level of a business man.
Especially for the status position, for the middle level, for the owner.
Expensive watches were a necessary attribute.
The cost of a watch is sometimes comparable to the cost of a car.
Someone has a smaller car, his subordinate.
But now the situation has changed a little.
In the third world countries, they began to make very spectacular fake.
Fake watches are almost indistinguishable from expensive watches.
It turned out that a person who buys and wears these watches,
on the contrary, he wants to make an impression by making a fake.
Real watches have already become a fake.
Therefore, less attention is paid to the high cost of the watch.
Of course, most managers have a good hand in Swiss quality and reliable watches.
But there is no need to overpay for their level.
Much more important, many people agree with this.
Many consultants say that it is more important to wear the latest model of the watch.
Watch factories began to pay more attention to the design of the watch.
And their difference from the next season.
In the consumer society, even in watches,
the inheritance of the son has become a tendency to change accessories.
And this is happening now on the mobile phone market, on the fashion gadget market.
And by the way, the most convenient way to show your status is to show the novelty of gadgets.
That is, pocket computers, mobile phones,
some ultra-fashionable all kinds of gadgets and portable electronic devices.
The newer and more expensive this device, the greater the status you show.
The consumer society is also a frequent change of things.
But now in society, this is a real trend.
If you want to pay special attention to your status,
you should have a tie from the latest collection,
a pocket computer from the latest collection,
a watch from the latest collection.
I can't do anything about it.
A very interesting situation is also on the jewelry market for women.
It used to be believed that jewelry was not quite appropriate for women during the day.
And it does not quite comply with the business code.
Now jewelry companies are promoting new label rules.
This is their marketing policy to take over the everyday jewelry market.
And a lot has begun to be released.
It is said that now the label allows small, neat jewelry, even jewelry with diamonds,
to be worn during the day and thus also to show their status.
But please avoid old, untrendy, tasteless jewelry, large, attracting attention.
These should be strict business forms.
More white gold, especially if you have a cool color type,
than bright red-yellow gold with rubies.
This is what our mothers wore in the 70s and 80s.
Now two more words about the most common mistakes concerning accessories.
Men have two most unpleasant mistakes.
The first is a bracelet.
These are small bags that need to be worn in hand without a belt through the shoulder.
This is a very bad tone.
Try to get rid of them, please.
I will not add anything to this.
The next mistake is the ring.
Sometimes at training far from Moscow, they tell me,
how is it so?
The ring is the opposite, a manifestation of my status.
In these cases, I say that this is your freedom.
Freedom of choice.
The choice to make the impression of a person of a specific place,
a small city, or an international level.
The level of communication at a high international level.
In these cases, rings are good only if they reflect your affiliation to a specific social group.
Sometimes some religious or social groups,
as a sign of emphasizing their affiliation to them,
they really wear rings on their hands.
Another mistake is the strange color of socks.
Another mistake is to wear ties with shirts.
They have a different shape of collar.
The shape of the collar is more like a woman's blouse than a man's shirt.
There is no necessary insert for ties.
That's all.
For a woman, the main mistake is the abundance of cheap old-fashioned gold.
These are loud, filled with small details,
cheap bags, belts, accessories.
These are inexpensive shoes.
The same is the bad tone.
These are very high heels in business code.
Another very important thing is shoes.
Shoes with a heel and shoes.
Shoes with a heel.
And barefoot on barefoot.
Only with bare feet.
Never wear heels if your shoes have an open toe or open heel.
This is a bad tone.
And vice versa.
If everything is closed, if the shoe is completely closed,
it is very ugly to wear it on an open leg.
Therefore, get rid of heels, buy stockings.
In the summer, thin stockings will save you from the heat and will not bring inconvenience.
I also want to say a little about shoes.
Especially about women's shoes.
Because men try to buy comfortable shoes.
But women often make one of two mistakes.
The first mistake is to buy cheap shoes.
Because they are not visible under the table.
I buy what is not visible at work.
Why spend a lot of money.
We buy shoes from artificial materials, filled with jewelry.
Which prevent you from breathing.
With a very high uncomfortable heel.
This is the first mistake.
The second temptation is the opposite.
We buy shoes that do not correspond dress code.
These are just soft shoes.
Or saba with a huge tankette.
That is, it is not visible.
But both of these mistakes are impossible.
Even if you meet a client sitting, you still need to go out to the printer.
It is not beautiful when the pause is tightened.
You put on uncomfortable shoes.
Which were thrown off for convenience under the table.
You walk all day in uncomfortable shoes.
Your leg suffers.
There are many nerve endings on the foot.
Your posture depends on your shoes.
Even if you sit at the table, if your foot feels
unpleasant pressure, it is expressed in your appearance.
You lose confidence in yourself.
You lose the image of a free, easy person.
This is important to make the necessary impression.
The impression of trust to you.
For men, I will say briefly at the beginning.
In the business of undress code, hair should be short.
Carefully laid, neat.
Not to make an impression of excess modernity.
Some creativity in haircut.
Now it happens that men wear long hair.
Then these hair should be long enough to lay them neatly
in the tail.
But remember, in any case, hair should be clean.
They should not be greasy.
You should wash them every day.
Regardless of the length.
Remember this.
If you have long hair, you put them in the tail.
Sometimes it seems that the point is to wash the head, if it is still in the tail.
But it's not so.
Beard and mustache.
Now you can wear a beard and mustache in business undress code.
And even allow yourself a little three-day non-shave.
It adds charm and charm.
This non-shave is still a manifestation of a circle.
Remember we talked about silhouettes.
This is a manifestation of creativity, a little bit of volumptuousness.
If you are a serious leader and want to show your toughness,
accuracy, punctuality, healthy aggression,
then it is better to refrain from a beard and especially non-shave.
However, if you prefer to add a creative,
add it with a bristle.
But it should not be naturally grown hair.
You should buy a special trimmer on the face.
Which will allow you to trim your bristle to the required length.
And make your beard neat and well-groomed.
Another special attention for men is to the hands.
I understand that the attitude to men who do manicure
is not always favorable.
I do not ask you to cover your nails with varnish.
But look carefully.
If your nails are broken, bitten,
many burrs, dry skin around the nails,
not moved cuticle.
All this makes the impression of negligence.
Your interlocutor will transfer this negligence to your work.
Therefore, it is very important to look very correct and neat.
We talked about washed hair.
Now we are talking about clean, well-groomed nails.
Carefully trimmed, well-groomed.
And you can do it in any way you want.
We are talking about clean, well-groomed nails.
Carefully trimmed nails.
The same applies to your face.
Use cosmetics for care.
Use decent, decent creams for the face.
After shaving, shaving foam.
It should be all very good and correct.
Remember that if you use cosmetics at a higher level,
the quality of the ingredients in this cosmetics is better.
Your skin reacts better to this cosmetics.
Looks better.
And the image of your respectability increases.
Therefore, do not neglect expensive cosmetics.
Even if you are a man, not a woman.
What hairstyle?
A woman in a business dress code can afford you medium-length hair, short, medium-length, long hair.
Very short haircuts are not welcomed by women.
It should not be an ultra-fashionable haircut.
The length should be medium.
The hair should not get up in a short brush and the skin of the head should not be visible.
A normal short haircut is very convenient.
The only minus is that if the hair grows quickly, it quickly becomes careless.
Therefore, if you cut short haircuts, you need to go to the hairdresser every month.
Only in this case you will look well-groomed.
And again, you will make an impression of a person who is attentive to the little things and does his job well.
If you have medium-length hair, you need to pay attention to the hair layout.
Of course, in good hairdressers you will be cut so that you pay minimal attention to your hair.
The hair is laid down after washing and left as it is.
If the hair sticks out in different directions, if it is carelessly laid down, especially if a long time has passed after the last haircut,
it is immediately visible and this carelessness is transferred to the products of your activities.
Now there are very good hair styling products.
They will allow you to lay your hair very neatly.
And then fix the result of your morning work for a whole day.
This is very convenient and does not spoil the hair.
If you like the abundance of small curls, it is best if the curls are natural.
If this is your natural hair type.
But if you curl and pay great attention to the curls on the begudi and tight curls,
most often in business style it looks superfluous.
Because it overloads your image with the silhouettes of circles.
Curls are circles.
And deprives you of the image of a serious business person.
And you get the image of lightness, instability, less responsibility.
Most often this interferes with business communication.
Makeup.
The best way to do makeup will be emphasizing your natural shades.
Shades of skin, shades of eyes and lips.
Let's start in order.
Shade of your skin, your tonal means and powder.
In fact, the best thing in business makeup, and so do European women.
Unlike us, more than 60% of their money is spent on skin care cosmetics.
And not on decorative cosmetics.
Our women spend 80% of their money on cosmetics.
What we draw on the face, and not how we take care of it.
And only 20% is really for care.
It is better to do the opposite.
80% of your cosmetics should be care cosmetics.
You should spend money on going to the cosmetologist,
carefully monitor the condition of your skin,
maintain healthy and flowering appearance.
In this case, you will make more trust.
And you will pay attention to yourself,
not to the layer of makeup, but to the appearance of your healthy skin.
Therefore, it is better to spend money on the best cream than on tonal means.
Good expensive creams create a matte, smooth, natural surface.
And for this, a large layer of tonal cream is not required.
If you apply a tonal cream, make sure that its surface is transparent.
It should be invisible on the face.
Naturally, this cream will be applied with a slightly wet sponge.
You can use powder if some parts of your skin shine too much.
Remember that powder should be good.
Then its structure is very delicate, the particles are round,
they do not injure your skin, they are practically invisible on it.
It is very important that you apply powder with a brush movement only from top to bottom.
In this case, small microscopic hairs on your skin will not interfere,
and you will not have to go up and accumulate powder on yourself.
In this case, your powder will be invisible on you.
Now the eyes.
To emphasize the color of your eyes, you can choose a shade of shadows,
calm, not bright, corresponding to the shade of your eyes or opposite to it.
But in business, it is preferable to have a shade of your eyes.
For brown eyes, it will be soft brown shades, for gray eyes, grayish-blue,
for green eyes, greenish-brown, for bright blue eyes, also pleasant gray-blue.
If you like to bring your eyes closer, then the mascara should not be darker than your eyes,
your natural tone, your eyelashes.
It is better to use a pencil and gently blend these lines,
so that there are no bright, annoying arrows.
In general, dark eyeliner, dark black mascara is good only for winter type.
All other color types are better to use soft brown or gray shades.
Be careful with blushes, it is easier to smile.
On the cheeks, we will give a light shade of the skin.
A pleasant pinkish-brown shade, not carrot and not pink,
but a natural shade of your skin.
Watch out for this.
That is, the color of your natural blush.
And just like that, apply the color of your natural lips to the lips.
You just emphasize them and give depth and a certain finish to your makeup.
Avoid very shiny, like shadows, like a tone, like blush, especially shine for the lips.
A shiny lipstick can only be worn by a woman with very narrow lips.
Then it will look good on her, because the area is small,
and this shine will compensate for the shortness of very narrow lips.
Next, manicure is very important for a woman.
And you can use nail polishes, you can use nail polishes,
but it is very important to observe the desired length.
After all, the nails should not be longer than 5 mm,
longer than the level of your finger.
That is, the nail should protrude over the finger no more than 5-7 mm.
Why does it look ugly?
This is an evening version, and at work, especially at the computer,
believe me, it's just a bad tone.
Even if it's a French manicure.
After all, the length of the nails should be closer to the natural length,
than to increase the nail twice.
The next very important thing for a woman is perfume.
By the way, men also have it.
Now you can use perfume during the day.
This is also a marketing policy of companies that sell perfumes.
But day perfumes should be simpler.
You can noticeably distinguish American perfumes.
There is no depth of tones and fewer components.
The smell itself is easier to perceive.
There are no contrasting shades.
In French perfumes, there are usually much more components,
deeper smell.
There are very deep, soft, velvet shades,
and very light, bright, first notes.
In American perfumes, there is no such thing.
After all, business perfumes should not be heavy.
There should not be heavy musk or white-colored scents.
There should be a sense of freshness,
a sense of lightness, tones, some sea citrus aromas.
For men, the smells of forest, the smells of poplar,
the smells of wood, the smells of leather are good.
In any case, this smell should not be obsessive.
You should not leave a trail, like evening, noisy scents.
Everything should be easy and unobtrusive.
A person should feel the smell only if it comes close to you,
when you shake hands, if it tilts to you,
look at the paper, or similar things.
Watch this carefully, please.
We talked about details.
We talked about how to buy and choose a business suit.
We talked about how to choose accessories correctly.
We talked about what attention should be paid to your hairstyle and perfume.
We talked about shoes.
But it is important to understand that in business and business etiquette
there are different levels of business code.
In other words, there are certain events
where you should come and dress with maximum severity and endurance.
And on the contrary, there are some events,
or there is such a level of company with a certain dress code,
or, for example, there are so-called free Fridays,
where you can make a weakening, you can dress more simply,
naturally, unobtrusively, more personally than corporately.
Therefore, we will definitely consider all business codes
from the most strict, which is called in English business best,
that is, the best business style.
And in the Russian tradition, it is more often called the strict business style.
And we will go down to the most free business style,
to the style of free Fridays or back offices,
that is, employees of offices who never meet, never intersect with clients.
So, strict business style.
For a man, it is always a white shirt and always a tie.
A tie of calm, muted tones.
Most often a diagonal strip.
Much less often a monotonous or geometrically located crop.
But still, a diagonal strip is better.
The suit is very dark, dark shades.
Only in the summer heat, light gray-pearl shades are possible.
There is also a rule that after 6 there is no brown color.
Here everything is the same.
If this is a solemn occasion, a solemn dinner, a festive event,
you should not have a brown shade.
I already said the white shirt.
Here are good zappanki, but you can leave buttons on the shirt.
Usually two buttons on such a parade shirt.
Pants with arrows.
In most cases, in the color of the jacket.
That is, they are a separate jacket and pants for you in a suit.
Shoes are only black.
And socks, respectively, only black.
And shoes for men, they are shoes, not shoes.
This is a flat, thin leather sole.
This is a smooth leather chevron.
Chevron is a smooth leather.
These are the shoes that you see on the slide.
Of course, we said that no borscht.
You can have a leather folder, you can have a leather portfolio.
But no canvas portfolios.
It is better to exclude canvas portfolios,
only if it is an accessory of your company, a corporate company.
This portfolio is just the material of the company.
This is not your personal thing.
Very strict accessories.
They are minimal.
There are practically no accents on them, for example, on the belt buckle.
Everything is very strict.
Everything is aimed at creating a strict business image without unnecessary details.
Yes, here's another very important thing.
A bad tone is a clip on a tie.
Please get rid of it.
Now the following.
A woman in a business best code.
In fact, you see on the slide a woman in trousers.
But in the most strict version, a woman should be in a skirt.
Straight, in a strict skirt, on the knee.
A stocking is only body color.
Shoes are also only black.
The shirt is only white, but without a tie.
In some cases, it is possible to use a scarf,
strict patterns of a classic silk scarf.
The jewelry is minimal.
Neat, calm, in no case cheap.
On the other hand, it is better to have them all.
Shoes in a stable, low heel.
Depending on the size of the foot, from 3 to 6 cm.
6-7 cm.
The bag is strict, more like a man's wallet or a man's folder,
than a cute woman's bag with ruffles, bows,
with some yarns, pockets and small details.
No, a very strict, calm bag.
Strict hair, long hair,
must be tightened to the tail or to the bun.
They are laid and covered with varnish,
so that the hair does not break out of the hairstyle.
This is really important.
Medium hair is straight and lies hair to hair.
Business style.
Men allow more.
Notice more colors of the suit.
You can afford light suits,
you can afford linen suits in the summer.
Suits with a jacket, jacket without lining,
or lining only half, only on the floors.
You can afford to walk without a jacket.
You can afford a variety of colors,
creative patterns, hooliganism on your tie.
The shirt can have all kinds of shades.
On the shirt may appear stripes or a cell.
But a man's flower pattern does not belong to the usual business style.
Your suit should not necessarily be smooth,
with smooth wool, as in a very strict business style.
In a simple business style,
you can afford softer fabrics,
buclet, loose, tweed.
You can afford shoes on a thicker sole.
The sole can be synthetic or rubber.
You can wear winter shoes in winter.
In a business style, even in winter,
you should wear shoes on a thin sole.
In a business style, this is not necessary.
You can wear shoes that look strict,
but it does not have to be shoes on a thin sole and thin leather.
You can choose.
Women can afford even married shoes.
Although this is not very recommended.
You can afford in a business style
different colors of trousers and jacket.
You can afford to take off the jacket,
you can afford a knitted vest if it's cold.
If it's very hot, you can wear a shirt with a short sleeve.
Now they say that if I wear a tie and a shirt with a short sleeve,
I make the impression of a consultant seller.
I do not know why this happens.
The most important thing is not to wear a shirt with a short sleeve under a jacket.
If in summer you go without a jacket,
you can wear a shirt with a tie and a short sleeve.
It will be fine.
There is more variety.
I specially selected those pictures that allow
to express more creative possibilities in a business style.
There are decorations that can attract attention.
You can wear loose hair.
Medium hair length can be laid in soft curls.
Long hair should be laid in a ponytail.
But in a more free form not necessarily smooth hair.
Women can afford in a business style
strict knitted, thin knitted,
very thin, very thin loops,
strict, even type.
Bright patterns, light shades,
pastel shades also appear in business style.
For women, these can be bright colored suits.
Creative elements.
In summer, in our country, the summer is not long,
so the business code is reduced.
In summer, you can wear linen trousers with a more free cut.
In hot days, you can wear open shoes.
And do not wear stockings.
Although in fact, for business style, for women, stockings are necessary.
Free business style is a style for free Fridays,
for back office.
If business is necessary for some very important business events,
for important negotiations, for presentations,
for meetings at exhibitions, for meetings at a high level,
then business style is a common everyday style of the office
and people who meet with their clients.
Free business style is a style of Fridays,
a style of a person who always works and never meets with clients.
Or this is a style in a company that declares its democracy,
or which simply does not pay any attention to the dress code of employees,
and everyone can go where they want,
but still observing a certain level of decency.
Men can wear jumpers, but most often jumpers with shirts.
Jumper without shirts or even without a T-shirt under it on a naked body,
it is very stylish, but in any case, in free business style is not accepted.
Women can wear knitted clothes,
can use a large knitted,
can use a deeper neckline,
open up your body more than in business style,
can use stretch fabrics,
that is, a little more fitting your body,
can use a vest, walk without a stocking,
or wear a pair of sandals, very cool.
Men can wear soft tweed jackets,
and women and men can wear strict jeans.
That is, jeans without any very bright elements, bright details,
some extra ruffles,
or interesting colors,
that is, for example, scuffs,
or some strange decals,
all this can be worn in free business style.
Usually for men it is a strict jumper with a shirt and jeans,
or with a light jacket,
and for women it is also a knitted blouse,
knitted T-shirt and jeans.
Nevertheless, in any case, for business style is unacceptable,
when a woman opens a neckline,
that is, fully open shoulders and chest,
and a man can not wear T-shirts,
and most often T-shirts are not accepted, even on the hottest days.
It is also not very good for a woman if she wears very short skirts,
in any case, this is not beautiful for business style,
and very large, eye-catching and contrasting to clothes accessories.
What to do if strict clothing does not meet the internal needs?
Indeed, what to do?
And very often at training I am asked this question.
What to do if I, according to the business code of my company,
need to wear only a black jacket and a black skirt,
and a white blouse and nothing else,
and I am strangled by this combination of colors,
I am strangled by this strictness,
I want to wear lighter, more free and often more comfortable things.
Because, of course, if it is a strict business skirt,
it is not as comfortable as soft cotton paper jeans, let's say.
I advise to do the following.
For women, a way of effective underwear is very suitable.
If it is very difficult for you in a strict,
masculine, laconic, conservative clothes,
put on very feminine,
filled with all kinds of feminine images,
floral patterns, hip-pure inserts,
some very interesting color or texture of underwear,
it will not be visible.
Of course, this will slightly break the general style of your clothes.
But if your underwear is not visible,
it will give you the feeling of femininity,
which you lack in appearance.
You will feel confident and calm,
and at the same time fully correspond to the business dress code.
If you are a man and you need to wear a very strict business suit,
and you want to give the impression of brightness and be different from others,
you can express yourself in your watch, let's say, and in your tie.
There is no etiquette rule to not wear large or electronic watches with a business suit.
Yes, in fact, these rules are just made up.
I was in Japan, and almost all Japanese wear huge, large,
even weather stations on their hands.
They consider it fashionable and effective, and wear it to the business suit.
They all go to work in strict black suits and white shirts,
and with such huge, interesting watches.
Thus, the Japanese get rid of the need to be very similar to each other.
And in the same way you can express yourself in ties.
Today's companies offer you a huge range of ties,
none of them are like the other.
There are ties with some gambling, even hooligan patterns.
And in fact, for business code it is normal.
You can also have some interesting shirts.
I saw a man's strict white shirt with a hooligan inscription on the back.
If you do not shoot a presentation, let's say, or a conversation in a jacket,
then on the one hand you look very strict,
but on the other hand, this note of such a hooliganism gives you confidence in yourself.
What is the importance of attention to details?
And once again, in conclusion, I remind you that attention to details will bring you success.
Depending on your own type of character, your own temperament,
depending on the goals that your communication,
presentation, negotiations, business conversation,
and communication with colleagues, with your team at work,
depending on the goal, depending on your inner world,
you must build your image, the image of success.
Remember that harmony attracts.
You need to manage your impressions.
Then you will attract attention to yourself, the attention, the necessary attention of the right people.
You will cause the necessary trust, especially this is important,
at your first meeting with a new client, with a new employer, with new team members.
And finally, you will show your social or corporate role.
Then you will not need to present yourself for a long time,
and this will reduce the possibility of distrust or irritation,
that is, negative emotions in your interlocutors, in your audience.
Remember harmony, remember attention to details,
remember that the business code must be,
that your business look must be well-groomed and neat.
Remember the time and place,
the influence of color and the influence of textures, the influence of silhouettes.
And finally, the golden ratio is very important,
this is the main sign and symbol of harmony.
Thank you very much.
Create your unique image.